Update pypi.md (#504)
niccokunzmann/open-web-calendar: docs/host/pypi.md

![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/open-web-calendar.svg) ![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/open-web-calendar.svg)

## Installation
The Open Web Calendar is available as a Python package on [PyPI]({{link.pypi}}).
If you have [Python 3](https://www.python.org/) installed, run this to install the package:

```shell
pip install open-web-calendar
```
At this point you might get the error message
```shell
error: externally-managed-environment
```

On your productive system, it is strongly recommended to follow the instructions to create a virtual environment using 
```shell

> python3 -m venv /home/username/venv

Reviewer: Could you use only relative commands?

```suggestion
python3 -m .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

from there on, you can use the commands without the path...

```
followed by 
```shell

> /home/username/venv/bin/pip install open-web-calendar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pip install open-web-calendar
```

works now...

Author: I am not sure that will work. You have to identify the respective project folder where the pip is located.

```
This will install your open-web-calendar app in the project folder  
/home/username/venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/open_web_calendar

## Execution
After installation, run the Open Web Calendar using [Gunicorn](https://pypi.org/project/gunicorn/):

```shell

> /home/username/venv/bin/gunicorn open_web_calendar:app

Author: Same here. The project folder path to the venv/bin/pip has to be identified.

> /home/username/venv/bin/gunicorn open_web_calendar:app

Reviewer: No. If you do .venv/bin/activate, you do not need to identify it any more.

> /home/username/venv/bin/gunicorn open_web_calendar:app

Reviewer: ```
source .venv/bin/activate
which pip
```

Try it out.

```

You should now see the server running at [http://127.0.0.1:8000](http://127.0.0.1:8000).

However, in case you have installed the WebPage you are going to use for the integration of your individual calendar on the same local machine, it must be accessible to other machines as well.  
In this case you might want to start the open_web_calendar with the dedicated IP-address of the hosting machine.

```shell

> /home/username/venv/bin/gunicorn -b 192.168.178.7 open_web_calendar:app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gunicorn -b 0.0.0.0 open_web_calendar:app
```

0.0.0.0 covers all of the addresses....

Author: Thats correct! Better 0.0.0.0

```

> You should now see the server running at [http://192.168.178.7:8000](http://192.168.178.7:8000) not only from your local machine.

Reviewer: This is still localhost or you might need to find out the IP address....
```suggestion
You should now see the server running at [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000), accessible by everyone in the network.
```

It is a bit hard to tell people how to access it now...

Author: This will not work if you use localhost from a third party machine.
E.g. Webserver on 192.168.178.5
open_web_calendar app on 192.168.178.6
WebBrowser on 192.168.178.90

If you use localhost:8000 on the WebBrowser-machine it will go nowhere.

Reviewer: Hm... Ok. But 192.168.178.7 is also going nowhere... Maybe, we can add something that one should replace that ip with the IP where the OWC is running. Or maybe, people will figure it out... It is only documentation after all, I am not so bothered about this one being too precise because we cannot know the IP.

Reviewer: It is already much better than before - let's leave this for later.

## Automatic Startup

> In order to start this service automatically at startup, you are required to create a systemd service script.

Reviewer: yay!! cool

Reviewer: I think, it would be nice to mention on which Operating System this one works and put it in the title and description.

```shell
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/open_web_calendar.service
```
Copy the following text into that file and do not forget to change **username** and **usergroup** accordingly!
```shell
[Unit]
Description=Gunicorn instance for the open_web_calendar
After=network.target

[Service]
User=username
Group=usergroup

> WorkingDirectory=/home/username/venv

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This is where you created the virtual environment before
WorkingDirectory=/home/username/.venv
```

Author: /.venv might be confusing since we have /venv before

Reviewer: Yeah, it should not be /venv You would probably have it in the home directory. Also, these are two different sections.

Environment="PATH=/home/username/venv/bin"

> ExecStart=/home/username/venv/bin/gunicorn -b 192.168.178.7 open_web_calendar:app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ExecStart=/home/username/.venv/bin/gunicorn -b 0.0.0.0 open_web_calendar:app
```

Author: Yepp...

Reviewer: If you like it, you can use this button... 

![Uploading grafik.png…]()

Reviewer: I do not really mind actually if it is `.venv` or just `venv`.
